No person shall publish, issue or display or cause to be published, issued or displayed before the public any statement, publication, notice, sign, symbol, emblem or other representation that 
indicates discrimination or an intention to discriminate against a person or a class of persons, or 
is likely to expose a person or a class of persons to hatred or contempt because of the race, religious beliefs, colour, gender, physical disability, mental disability, age, ancestry, place of origin, marital status, source of income, family status or sexual orientation of that person or class of persons. 
Nothing in this section shall be deemed to interfere with the free expression of opinion on any subject.
The Court of Queen’s Bench elaborated on defining the meaning of hatred, contempt and likely to expose in Re: Kane (2001), 94 Alta.L.R. (3d) 87. 
Hatred means "active dislike, detestation, enmity, ill-will, malevolence." (Re: Kane)
Justice Rooke in Re: Kane expanded this definition and stated that hatred is: a set of emotions and feelings which involve extreme ill will towards another person or group of persons. To say that one "hates" another means in effect that one finds no redeeming qualities in the latter. It is a term, however, which does not necessarily involve the mental process of "looking down" on another or others. It is quite possible to "hate" someone who one feels is superior to one in intelligence, wealth or power.
Contempt means "the condition of being condemned or despised; dishonour or disgrace."
Justice Rooke said that contempt "suggests a mental process of 'looking down' upon or treating as inferior the object of one's feelings.
How do you show that a statement is "likely to expose" a person to hatred or contempt? The following questions will be considered within the context of each case:  
Does the communication itself express hatred or contempt of a person or group on a basis of one or more of the listed grounds? 
Would a reasonable person, informed about the context, understand the message as expressing hatred or contempt? 
Assessed in its context, is the likely effect of the communication to make it more acceptable to others to manifest hatred or contempt against the person or group concerned? 
Would a reasonable person consider it more likely than not to expose the target group members to hatred and contempt? 
Some of the factors that courts and human rights tribunals examine to answer the above questions are the:  
content of the communication; tone of the communication; image conveyed, including whether the use of quotations, references and sources give the message more credibility; vulnerability of the target group; degree to which the expression reinforces existing stereotypes; circumstances surrounding the message, including whether the message appeals to well publicized issues; medium used to convey the message; circulation of the publication; credibility to be accorded to the communication; and context of publication, for example, whether it is part of a debate or whether it is presented as news, or as a purportedly authoritative analysis.
The main focus of this analysis is not the intent of the person distributing the statement, but rather the nature of the message and the effect the statement has on another individual or group. Indeed, discrimination may be found even when the person publishing or distributing the statement had no intention to discriminate. It is whether a reasonable person would be persuaded that individuals or groups are more likely to be exposed to hatred or contempt based on the protected grounds because of the distributed statement. 
The AHR Act does not apply to all statements 
The protection provided by the AHR Act does not apply to numerous statements that people might personally find to be insulting, upsetting, in bad taste, contrary to their own beliefs and so on. 
In order to engage the protection of the Act the statements must be linked to the grounds protected under the Act and must meet the tests described in this section for determining whether a statement indicates discrimination, an intention to discriminate or is likely to expose a person or class of persons to hatred or contempt
